so we begin in Gaza where more than 1
million people have been forced to leave
Rafa in the South that's according to
the UN Agency for Palestinian refugees
Ana many of the displaced have had to
move several times during nearly eight
months of War Israel has been expanding
its offensive in the southern city which
it designated a safe Zone more than
3,500 children are at risk of dying of
starvation that's according according to
gaza's government it says they're
suffering from malnutrition as critical
humanitarian Aid and medical supplies
for Gaza have been halted since Israel
took control of the Rafa Crossing last
month hospitals in Gaza are overwhelmed
with patients in critical conditions
Israeli strikes are continuing across
the strip at least 28 Palestinians have
been killed on Monday let's bring in our
correspondent in darl Bala in central
Gaza hany mmud hany you're standing
there in front of a hospital tell us
about the condition for doctors and for
patients many of whom have been
displaced several
times yes Laura well by the hours we're
looking at a Qui dire situations keep
evolving to much more complexity inside
this hospital we happen to be reporting
from the courtyard of the only
operational health facility in the
Central Area been uh providing H uh
services for not only the local
residents but for all the displaced
families from the past 8 months coming
all the way from the northern uh part of
the strip Gaza City and more recently uh
influx of more displaced families from
ra City and khun given the ongoing
intense bombing campaign that keep uh
pushing people into further internal
enforce displacement adding more
pressure on this particular Health
Facilities doctors here inside the
hospital we're talking about exhausted
medical staff been working for the past
8 months stop they they suffer from the
acute shortage of medical supplies for
the most part we're seeing injuries and
patients inside the hospital literally
on the floor of the hospital because it
simply ran out of space it it doesn't
have the capacity to accommodate this
large number of injuries and on top of
that the the the patients and other
cases a transfer from other hospitals
just adding more pressure on everybody
inside the hospital it's also important
to uh point out that the the courtyard
of the hospital turn into a displacement
uh camp for evacuees from different
parts of the strip literally wherever
you walk here you would see T that set
up by evacuees and displaced families
inside the courtyard of the hospital
posing more difficulties and challenges
for paramedics civil defense the crew
medical staff everything is quite uh
facing a challenge uh to get a better
picture of what's going on inside the
hospital we're joined by uh Tia go
chardo she is the director of the
development from miglia uh Tia thank you
so much for joining us uh what is the
situation in hospitals in uh the
situation in hospitals today is beyond
catastrophic um what we've been
witnessing since October is a complete
systematic destruction of hospitals by
the Israeli military starting in the
north working their way all the way down
to the South uh as you said Hy there are
uh few operational facilities we've got
one semi functioning Hospital behind us
uh patients aren't able to access the
health care that they need and doctors
aren't able to provide the resources
that they require in order to provide
Healthcare Services Tia can you share
with us your uh personal experience and
how your work here has been going sure
so uh Gia has been in Gaza providing uh
support through medical delegations
since February uh we've been bringing in
international healthcare workers to
assist in the hospital specifically we
were helping in uh Rafa in t sutan
Primary Healthcare Clinic and Emira
hospital and I now have some emergency
nurses here at aloa hospital and each
delegation will be bringing in medical
supplies with them uh medicine and
equipment that were desperately needed
but we're never enough uh I understand
this is not your first time in Gaza you
were here back in March and you're back
again uh within the past couple weeks
can you describe the scale of
deterioration in inside the hospital the
healthcare system in general sure yeah
the situation has gone from bad in March
to worse now uh so I was in Rafa when
the evacuation orders were issued before
the Israeli Army made its incursion into
that area and what we saw was initially
um at least uh hospital and healthc Care
spaces that were being used by many many
people we had a large influx of people
into Rafa so these spaces were seeing
about 1,200 patients a day once those
evacuation orders were issued and about
900,000 Palestinians moved out of Rafa
into the mo masasi area and up north
those hospitals emptied out as well that
didn't mean they didn't need the
services they desperately needed the
services but they were too afraid to go
into the hospitals to seek those
Services because everyone saw what
happened in the North and nobody wants a
repeat of that here in the South uh and
so we had a lot of patients who were
requiring healthare who weren't
accessing it because they were afraid or
they were on the move and couldn't
access it because they were now
displaced once again right we're talking
about a population that has to move
three four five times desperately in
search of a better uh safer space that
we all know simply doesn't exist yeah in
light of what we're seeing now there's
no lit up in the attacks no slowdowns
meant by the Israeli military what are
the major medical needs right now we
just saw a few minutes ago injuries keep
coming to the hospital what are needed
right now in like major medical needs in
Gaza yeah literally everything I cannot
overstate what is needed every single
item is required in these hospitals I
mean we're looking at people who have
chronic cases for example people who are
suffering from cancer who cannot access
their medications we have people who
have kidney failure who cannot access
the resources that they need in order to
to sustain their life and then combine
that with the high amount of trauma
cases that we're seeing in these
hospitals and they don't have the gauze
they don't have the splints they don't
have the tnes to treat these patients
but I think it's also important to note
that personally I don't think that what
the hospital needs are more of things
what they actually need is a cessation
of things they need to stop to things
they need to stop to this war right as
soon as this war ends and we can open up
the borders then the solutions begin to
flood and then we can get the aid then
we can get the humanitarian workers then
we can help give a break to these
exhausted and traumatized healthcare
workers Dia thank you so much thank you
so as we heard from the director of
development from Gia the situations are
Beyond catastrophic it's a perhaps
better describe as a crisis above
emergence inside health facilities and
we see it every day inside the corridors
of this Hospital right here in D balah
City where people are on the floor of
the hospital or in overcrowded rooms uh
and with the inability to intervene and
provide a proper Health uh services and
intervention it's becoming very very
difficult to sustain the operations of
these hospitals hanim Mahmud in central
Gaza there for us thanks very much much
honey make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer